

Consider we have an RDS instance in the prod environment and a Redshift cluster in a non prod environment. How can we move the data from RDS to Redshift
What is your working experience in the EKS cluster?
Common issues you faced when working with EKS cluster?
Any exposure for CloudFormation?
What is the need of peering in VPC?
How many VPC can be connected to an internet Gateway?
Difference between VPC peering & VPC endpoints
Write a dockerfile which you have used
Is there any alternative instructions for the dockerfile you have written.
Is there any difference between COPY & ADD, ENTRYPOINT & CMD.
What pipelines have you used?Write one pipeline for me
What is difference between agent any & agent none
Explain me about ReplicaSet in K8S
Explain the Kubernetes architecture
What resources have you created using Terraform
Explain how you created the EKS cluster using Terraform briefly.

VCO-L1

From the Devops point of view what happens when you enter a URL in the browser.
What are the issues if an application is not running?
Difference between git clone & git checkout
Difference between git pull & git fetch
Explain the branching strategy ?
Explain the CI-CD pipeline.
How many microservices were there?
Explain the DOCKERFILE
Difference between POD and containers
Difference between workload & application in Kubernetes.
How to restart a pod?
Different types of Services in K8S.
What version of EKS?
Terraform lifecycle.Explain
Have you used IRSA?
Any Database exposure?
Have you used Prometheus & Grafana? Have you created alerts?

CapeGemini-L1

Introduce yourself & explain day to day activities
What AWS services for automation are you using?
What is the tenancy module for EC2?
Best suitable for 6 months workload
You want to launch an instance with a particular instance type but in that region you are not having that instance type? How would you go about that
What would be the cost cutting way to utilize AWS?
Suppose i dont use auto scaling, & my instance goes down. How can I spin up new instances?
Even if you configure these settings in Cloudwatch to launch a new instance.It might not even launch an instance? What could be the possible reason?
How do you solve the performance issues of a web application hosted in EC2 instances?
How are you gonna partition a disk in Linux?
How do you upgrade the Terraform?
Consider you have 50 resources to be created in terraform configuration file & you have written the configurations. But now only 15 resources have to be created out of 50 during the terraform apply. How can we achieve this?
What are built -in provisioners in Terraform?

AMADEUS LABS–L1

Explain the roles & responsibilities you have managed in your experience.
Can you tell me one most challenging part of your work
What is the role in your team
You have 10 commits in the staging branch , lets say you only have to move 8 commits into prod env. How can we achieve this in GIT? You cannot undo the commits since those are required for your staging env.
What is the difference between Kubernetes POD & a Docker container
Difference between docker image & container
How do you optimize the layers in Docker images.
Having more image layer is best or less layers?Why?
How do you perform security vulnerability check for images?
Difference between SonarQube & Trivy
Write a portion of jenkins pipeline on sonarqube where you highlight critical  vulnerability
Command to get the present namespace in kubernetes
Command to change the particular namespace
Define a list of integers in shell script & print out the sorted list.
What are the maven commands to build artifacts
How the dependencies for the build will ne managed ?
How are these dependencies checked in SonarQube?
How much LINUX commands you are comfortable with?
Significance of multistage docker builds


TRIANZ_DIGITAL

Introduce your roles & responsibilities in couple of lines
How will you write a terraform code for db instance in th private subnet to have connection to the internet whereas any request from the internet has to be denied.
Explain the difference Between NACL & SGs
Advantages of VPC peering & Transit Gateway
Explain the module structure of your production workload in terraform
Why do you need DynamoDB table?
Difference between terraform init & terraform plan
Explain the Kubernetes Architecture.
Difference between PODS & CONTAINERS
Explain difference between deployment & stateful set 
How do you resolve a merge conflicts?

VCO-L2

Introduce yourself , roles & responsibilities
Which cloud & which services you used?
How do you provision these resources using terraform?
Where do you store your state files?
How do you import existing AWS resources to your terraform?
Explain the CI-CD setup
Who created the EKS cluster
Have you faced any issues while deployment issues?
Have you done the upgradation of cluster?
What are the metrics that you are monitoring in Grafana
Are you familiar with RDS Database?
Are you good writing in YAML files

HCL_TECH–L1

Explain the roles & responsibilities you have managed in your experience.
Command git config. What is the use of it?
How do you practically resolve the merge conflict?
What is git ls-tree?
How do you manage git cherrypick
What is the difference between git fetch and git merge
How do you delete the remote branch of remote from the local repo?
What kind of tags you have used in your project
What is the difference between bash shell & cshell?
What do you mean by shell variables
What types of variables in shell script? (System defined)
What is the soft link & hard link
What is the role of load balancer in Kubernetes?
What is Kubernetes operator ?
How many nodes are available , which nodes are available?
What are the types of external networking provided to Kubernetes?
What are PODS?
What are sidecar containers?
How can you scale the Kubernetes cluster?
Difference between Deployment controllers & Statefulset controllers
What is kubectl apply & How it works
What are the ways to install jenkins?
How can you move the jenkins home directory to a different folder 
How do you upgrade a server with zero downtime?

Amadeus-(L2 + HR)
Let's start with your experience
Explain the CI/CD pipeline what you have configured till the deployment
What are the advantages of Multistage docker files?
How much experience do you have in provisioning Your cloud services?
What is the recent things you have done
Walk me through the steps of automating infra provisioning through terraform
How does terraform work ?
Between Ansible & terraform tell me one pro & cons of both
You have experience with ELK stack & observability space.
Any experiencing with security side of things , security tools as such?
Can you share more details about TRIVY? Advantages of using it



Encora-L1

Introduce yourself 
How do you host your application & make it highly secure and highly available using only AWS services.
How the VPC structure looks like?
Route53 can create health checks?
What are the types of Load balancers & the use cases of it
I have 2 AWS accounts , I need to transfer AMIs from one account to another. How it can be done?
Explain the different storage classes in S3 buckets & explain the difference between them
How many S3 buckets can be created per account?
What are ELASTIC IP addresses & use cases of it
I have attached an elastic IP address for EC2 & how much it would cost after a month
Have you used AWS Lambda & in what capacity?
How do you trigger a lambda function
Explain the difference between CloudFormation & terraform
In terraform what is the statefile & when it will be created ?
What is the need for state locking in terraform?
How do you bring resources created through console into your terraform managed statefile?
How do you manage different env in terraform?
How to run a script through terraform?
How do you integrate your Github with the Jenkins pipeline?
Difference between types of pipeline
Explain the master-slave architecture in jenkins
If a build fails will the pipeline abort? 
How can you provide runtime variables in the jenkins–both global & local.
Mention some ansible ad hoc commands
For what purpose Vault is used
Explain the containerization mechanism
Docker is written in which language
Write a format for Dockerfile
Write a pipeline script
Write a shell script to update the packages in a server
How do you scale in Kubernetes
How to monitor always the POD is running or not
Difference between Docker Swarm and Kubernetes
What are container orchestration platforms?
Does Kubernetes provide any feature to store sensitive databases
Which OS have you worked on? Mention daily used commands 
Can you tell me some production issues which you faced & it was challenge to get it resolved
Are you managing any incident tools?
Explain the difference between DEVOPS & SRE
Any reason for looking for a change of organization.


7-Eleven–L1

Explain the roles & responsibilities you have managed in your experience.
If i give a new AWS account how will host your app using AWS services
How many subnets will you create inside VPC?
Will you attach a NAT gateway to db instances in a private subnet?
How will you plan the governance of your AWS account
What is the trust relationship inside the roles ?
How do you set up cross account access in AWS?
Can i use a single load balancer to divert the traffic to 10 microservices in the backend
What is lifecycle policies for S3 buckets?How can we configure
I want a database instance in a private subnet to access some files in S3 bucket. What are the ways to achieve this?
Can you run each of the stages in pipelines on different servers?
What exactly is dynamic slaves in Jenkins? How to configure it?
Explain basic CI pipelines & CD pipelines
What does the terraform init command do?
How will you manage the state files?
What is the use of lock ?
For some reason someone modified the resource created through terraform in the console, how can you bring those changes into a terraform managed statefile?
How will you organize your terraform config files to deploy 3 tier application in AWS
How will you segregate these config files ? will all these go in a single pipeline
Have you used error handling in Ansible?
What are Ansible handlers?
What kind of configuration do you use in ELK to push the logs?
What is the function of ELASTIC search here?
Have you worked on any security services? Which deals with application security?
Can you give me high level architecture of the EKS cluster & how your application is running.
How are you isolating the microservices inside your cluster? Using NodePort ?
In docker what is the difference between COPY & ADD.
Difference between ARG & ENV 
Networking in docker , explain.
Have you worked on dynamic inventory? What is dynamic inventory?
How does Ansible fetch the instances?
How can you group these servers to run playbooks in batches?

25)ConstructivIq–L1–15/05/2024
Tell something about yourself.
How many services do you have in deployment?
I hope there is interdependency between them? What is the mode of communication between micro services inside the cluster?
How do you trace which service has a problem when it's not working?
How comfortable are you in writing PromQL queries
What is the best cluster for running 5 microservices
Why are leaving your current org?

26)XactlyCorp-L1-15/05/24
Introduce yourself with roles & responsibilities you have assumed
How much do you rate on linux?
How do you schedule a cron job?How many fields will be there?
I need to find the error logs & i don't know the path? How will you do that?
How do you use Disk utilization alerts?
What steps do you take to clear out the disk space?
If you want to compress the log files?
How to check the namespace in kubernetes?
How will you check the logs of particular pod
If any of the POD is not terminating from a namespace , how will you clear it?
 Are you setting up an EKS cluster ?
What is the concept of taints in kubernetes?
What is the difference between liveness & readiness probes?
Can you write a shell script assuming there are 10 servers & check available disk space in those 10 servers.
Write this using ansible as well?
