INTERVIEW QUESTIONS
1)Accolite-L1-01/05/2024
Q) Introduce yourself
1.      Linux command to check the listening ports in linux server
2.      How to permanently mount a disk in linux
3.      How to get the particular IP address entry from a log folder which can contain 100’s of files using a single linux command.
4.      How to cut & replace multiple occurrences of an IP address inside the files.
5.      How to increase the java process memory in linux
6.      Have you used Route53?What is the purpose ?
7.      Have you used EFS ? What is the purpose ?
8.      Can you attach EFS to Windows?
9.      From AWS console , how can you note differences between the pub and pvt subnets?
10.  Have you worked on CloudFront?
11.  You have an instance in the Mumbai region, how can you transfer the instance to the US east region?
12.  What is RPO & RTO in the cloud?
13.  How are you managing creation of resources in diff env in terraform?
14.  How to create a new environment & switch to diff env in terraform?
15.  What would be the way forward if you lost the .tfstate file?
16.  Why have you used Ansible vault?
17.  How do you pass the ansible vault secrets to the playbook ?(username & password)
18.  Have you worked on Ansible Tower?
19.  How to trigger build in Jenkins as soon as someone commits a code in GITHUB?
20.  Do you manage Jenkins yourself? How do you upgrade Jenkins master without disturbing the ongoing build process?
. 





2)Cognizant L1–03/05/2024
Give a brief introduction about yourself.
Explain the branching strategy.
How are you going to automate deployment to diff environments from respective branches?
What is meant by CI/CD?
What is JenkinsFile ? How are you using it?
Write the JenkinsFile syntax & structure?
What are the issues you faced in working with Jenkins?
How does the Ansible playbook differ from ansible roles?
What are the common modules you have used in ansible?
How much experience do you have in the cloud? What are the services you have used for the projects?
How do you rate yourself in terraform out of 5?
 Write a .tf file for creating ec2 through terraform
What is the exact use case of statefile ?
Any experience in scripting?
Any experience working in the financial domain?
May I know the reason for moving to diff organization?
3)Infinite L1-04/05/2024
Give a brief intro about yourself along with projects you worked on , tools you have used?
What are your daily activities?
Can you tell more on AWS services you are working/worked on?
Write a terraform script to create an instance in a private subnet and attach it to load balancer target group.
Write a jenkins file to fetch a code from the branch, build a war file & send to the target server.
Write a Dockerfile yaml to build an image.
How comfortable are you with ansible playbooks? What are the playbooks you have written?
Can you write a script to install the ansible role through playbook?
Have you worked on RDS? Have you created any instances along with the databases?
If a POD goes down what would be the command you use to check the reason?
What AWS service application will you use if you want to stop an instance at night & start it in the morning ?

4)TRUGlobal-L1-06/05/2024
1.  Briefly Introduce yourself in couple of lines
2.  Have you used Prometheus & Grafana as an end user or did you set it up? How did you set it up?
3.  What command du does? Is there a similar command to du ?
4. What does netstat does? Is there any replacement for netstat ? (socket statistics)
5. What is a systemd? How is daemon different from process?
6.  How do you stop a service?
7. Why do you need a sudo privilege to stop a service?
8. Does sudo allow you to run all root commands?
9. Have you written a shell script? I want you to print all the even numbers from 1 to 10.
10. How do you create a branch in git?
11. Suppose you have cloned a remote repo & then you created a new branch locally , so will this branch be visible in remote repo if you push the changes?
12.  Do you know what a git rebase is?
13. If I ask you a pipeline to build, test and deploy java applications, how to do that?CI-CD stage
14. How will the deployment to the Kubernetes cluster happen ?
15. When deploying to Kubernetes how do you segregate diff environments inside the cluster?
16. For your PODS how do you get the log files? Explain the configuration you make?

5)o9 Solutions-L1-06/05/2024
 
1. Tell me about yourself, projects you have worked on & tools you have experience in using?
2. Have you used custom AMIs to provision instances or already existing AMI’s in the cloud?
3. If I want to automate the creation of the Golden image process? What type of tools can you use to automate this process?
4. I have EBS volumes attached to instances and need to automate taking snapshots & retain it for 7 days . How can you automate the whole process?
5. In AWS if I am having some IAM policies & I want to see the history of policy changes & if needed to roll back? How can I do it?
6. How does terraform work? How statefile
7. Did you create the EKS cluster & how have you done it?
8. Have you used Terragrunt modules?
9. Do you have Kubernetes pods deployed as statefulset or stateless deployment?
10. Is there any storage point in your application?
11. Have you deployed redis in K8S? How did you store the data like caches even after the deployment?
12. For deployments are you using Helm Charts?
13. Have you configured super charts in Helm?
14. In Ansible , you have instances info as static inventory or dynamic inventory?
15. How frequently your dynamic inventory fetches the details of the server?
16. In Ansible , what is the use case of block?
17. You have multiple roles & inside it you have multiple tasks, How can you call a particular task within the role to be executed?
18. In parent.yaml file how can you call roles?
19. What is the use case of templates?
20. Are you using ANSIBLE TOWER?
21. Have you done the Jenkins setup from scratch?
22. If I want to integrate my company people access through AD (Active Directory)? How to configure?
23. How can you manage access to Jenkins for employees?
24. Versions of Ubuntu you used? Have you done any OS migrations?
25. I want a server to run a script every time the system reboots. How can you automate this script?
26. I have a log folder and I want to delete the files which are 30 days older ? What command can I use?
27. If I have a server & through Prometheus you are collecting metrics . So I want an alert mechanism to send an email whenever the threshold is breached . How can you configure this?
28. If you get an alert that server memory is breached? What services will you check & how will you troubleshoot?



6)Infinite-L2-06/05/2024

Tell me about your experience in Devops Tools & AWS.
How many projects have you worked on in the EKS cluster?
I want to use EBS based storage & for some EFS based storage.What additional things need to be done to achieve this? What set of functionality to be added to the cluster?
Do you know the ALB controller? What configuration do you use to attach an ALB controller to your cluster?
What is the functionality of the ALB controller?
Have you written any Ingress resource.yaml?
Have you written the Kubernetes HELM chart? Inside the helm chart I need to  include one dependency helm chart for Redis? So what is the way to include any dependency in HELM charts.
What is the main purpose of maintaining the templates?
Have you worked on ARGOCD?
What type of Autoscaler have you used at the cluster level?
Have you know any sort of Service Mesh within the cluster?
For how many years have you worked completely on the EKS cluster?
Do you know how many types of provisioners are in terraform?
I have an existing EC2 & inside that I need to run some commands inside it through terraform. How can I do it?
What is the use case of null resource in terraform?
 Are you comfortable in writing terraform scripts based on scenarios?
I need 3 s3_buckets to be created within a single resource block. Write a script.
Suppose I want to 300 instead of 3 s3 buckets later, what parameterization i can do in this resource block?
Suppose I have 3 names already & I want these names as my bucket-name after creation ? How can I achieve this?
 Suppose we have 2 accounts in AWS A&B, in account A i have created db password in secrets manager & i want this secrets to be accessed through Account B. How to do it?
Suppose you are the admin of EKS cluster? Some QA team members want to access the cluster to run kubectl commands ? How will you provide them the access?
Have you worked on Prometheus & Grafana or did you just set it up?


7)TRUGlobal-L2-06/05/2024
Tell me about your experience , how you can fit in here?
You have 50 projects in subversion & you need to migrate to git. You have to retain all the branches, commit histories & versions? How do you go about doing it?
What is the difference between git merge & git rebase?
Can you explain what would be the best CI/CD pipeline?
If you want to expose your service in Kubernetes to the outside world ? How do you go about it?
What is CIDR in networking?
What are provisioners in terraform?
Can you write a shell script or python script? Write a code that would reverse a string?
Do you know the Fibonacci series? Write a script to generate fibonacci series?

8)Automation cloud_SLK–L1–06/05/2024
Introduce yourself & tools you have worked on.
For what application you have built docker images.
What have you provisioned using Terraform?
Have you done any migration ?
What is the depend_on use case in Terraform?
What is the use case of count? How is it different from for_each ?
Tell me different types of provisioners. What are their use cases?
Can you tell me the modules? What is the use?
For example i have code in git repo , how can i call it inside main.tf files?
What would you do to call these modules if they are present locally?
 Difference between Cloud Formation & terraform?
Have you worked on Cloud Formation?
You have created a VPC using cloud formation. Now you need some changes/upgrades to make to that VPC through terraform. How can you do it?
Explain VPC architecture & its components.
Have you worked on AWS Lambda? What are the diff languages?
Which version of Python have you used in AWS Lambda?
What are the limitations of AWS Lambda?
What have you done in ansible? For what purpose have you written playbooks
What is the significance of ‘register’ in Ansible?
Do you know the different types of engines supported by RDS?
Are you working currently ? Are you good at Python ?


9)TEKSystems-L1-07/05/2024
Introduce yourself & tools you have worked on.
Can you explain the project which you have worked on recently
What is Terraform?
What is the difference between apply & refresh command.
What is the state file?
What is ELB?Types of load balancer?
What is git rebase?
Commands to push the code into a remote repository.
What is the branching strategy?
Launched an EC2 instance but not able to connect to the instance what might be the reason?
 I have 3 accounts A,B & C , Bucket is in A, I want to push the logs from the instances in B & C to the bucket in A? How to do this?
How to manage diff env in terraform?
What is Grafana?What are key features?
What are the data sources?
Role of plugins to Grafana?
How do you secure Grafana ? Is it open source?
How do you backup & restore dashboards?
Different panels available in Grafana
How to create a monitor for CPU utilization in Grafana?
What are custom dashboards?
Is it possible to integrate Grafana with Azure?
Difference between monitor & dashboard?
What is Alerting?
How to authenticate VS code with AWS?
Command to get the pod in K8S?
What are Kubernetes Secrets?
What is a Helm Chart?
Can you explain the statefulset?
What is Kubernetes Ingress?
What is RBAC in K8s?
Difference between containers & VM.
What is an overlay?

11)TRUGlobal-R3-(Client round)
Introduce yourself
Do you think is there any difference between git & Github
How to recover a deleted branch in git?
Difference between git rebase & git merge.
Difference between git fetch & git pull.
Version of Kubernetes you are working.
Service Mesh in Kubernetes? What is it?
What is RBAC in Kubernetes?
In the K8S cluster, you are noticing a pod not working?What approach would you take?
What might be the reasons for POD evicting from NODE?
How good are you at LINUX?
Suppose you have a custom service and you want to run that service every time after reboot? How can you automate it?
Difference between soft link & hard link
The web app in the server started to lag , there has been a user complaint, you checked all the memory , cpu & hard disk utilization . What can be the issue & how do you go about it?
What is a daemon process?
What is the Orphan process?
How can you execute the script in the background
Have you ever provisioned Jenkins from scratch
How did you upgrade jenkins?Tell me the steps
Write a shell script to reverse the words in a sentence?
Write a command to delete the files in the current directory which are 30 days old.
12)Trianz Digital-L1-08/05/2024
Introduce yourself, roles & responsibilities
Write a shell script to monitor your resource usage of the server.
Write a shell script to take the backup of a folder.
What sort of services are you familiar with?
What are your daily activities in AWS services?
What is a LANDING ZONE in AWS Services?
How would you design a LANDING ZONE?
What AWS services can you choose to migrate a server?
How would you manage the networking of multi accounts in AWS?
 How would you secure data during & after AWS migration?
Are you aware of AWS Migration Hub?
How would you handle disaster recovery in AWS?
What is Autoscaling ? How does it work?
How do you manage the state of terraform?
How do you manage concurrent updation of state file?
How do you handle the sensitive data in terraform?
What is your strategy for upgrading versions of terraform?
How many types of load balancers?Explain the differences
How do you authenticate to AWS with terraform?
How did you set up the EKS cluster through terraform?
Can you describe CI-CD wrt to AWS services
How can you secure multi tier app deployment through terraform?
How will you utilize the policies in terraform?
What type of logs get stored in Cloud watch logs?
Tell me 5 best practices to implement Cloud Optimization?
How do you handle terraform config files conflicts inside GIT?
 
